MITIGATION MEASURES
Thailand has made efforts to uphold its commitment under the Convention by
integrating climate change mitigation into its national and sectoral policies and plans
and implementing mitigating measures in order to achieve the national GHG reduction
targets—NAMA’s target to reduce GHG emissions by 7-20% from BAU by 2020 and
NDC’s target to reduce GHG emission by 20-25% from BAU by 2030. Thailand submitted
the 2nd updated NDC, which aligns with an ambitious pledge to reduce GHG emissions
by 30% from the BAU level by 2030. The contribution level increases to 40%, subject
to adequate and enhanced access to technology development and transfer, financial
resources, and capacity-building support. Furthermore, Thailand will continue efforts to
meet the long-term goals of carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero GHG emissions
by 2065.
Thailand implemented NAMA’s mitigation measures and successfully achieved a GHG
reduction of 56.54 MtCO2eq in 2020 from 10 mitigation measures in the energy and
transport sectors which is 15.40% lower than its BAU level. As NAMA ended in 2020,
Thailand has transitioned toward NDC, which aims to reduce GHG emissions in the
energy, transport, industrial process and product use, and waste management sectors.
In addition, Thailand has also increasingly developed supporting measures and
voluntary actions to mitigate GHG reduction, such as the carbon market and carbon
label schemes.

Figure: Thailand’s GHG emission reduction from NAMA implementation 2013-2020

THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
VULNERABILITY AND ADAPTATION
Thailand, a developing country, is ranked 9th as the most affected country by climate
change impacts in the last 20 years (2000-2019) by Global Climate Risk Index 2021
(CRI), both in terms of human impacts (fatalities) and direct economic losses. Thailand,
by ONEP and RU-CORE, has developed a database of geospatial risks from climate
change by assessing climate impacts, risks, and vulnerabilities in 6 significant sectors:
water management, agriculture and food security, tourism, public health, natural
resources management, and human settlement and security. The risk and vulnerability
assessments for climate projection are based on the top-down approach using climate
scenarios generated through the most updated version of General Circulation Models
(GCMs) and RCP models, which are derived from data in the SEACLID/CORDEX SEA
Phase II project. For all the 6 sectors, 3 types of climate hazards—heat, drought, and
flooding—are considered together with socio-economic factors. The vulnerability
assessments show that climate impacts are not homogenous across hazard, type, time,
and areas. Different sectors and different regions in Thailand are vulnerable to different
climate hazards. In addition to the physical impacts of climate change, Thailand is also
vulnerable to changes in socio-economic conditions, particularly the aging population.

OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION AND ACTIVITIES
Chapter 5 depicts other information and activities of climate actions that complement
and empower the implementation of mitigation and adaptation measures enabling
Thailand to achieve the objectives of the Convention. The information and activities
include technology development and transfer; research and systematic observation;
education, training, public awareness, public participation, and public access to climate
information; capacity building; and information sharing and networking. First, Thailand
has established a mechanism for technology transfer and formulated a climate
technology database and roadmap indicating technologies that require further
development aligning with key sectors stated in Thailand's NDC and Thailand's NAP.
Significant technologies have been developed to reach carbon neutrality and net-zero
targets in the energy sector, such as technologies related to electric vehicles and
hydrogen fuel. Second, research and systematic observation have been conducted
in climate variable sectors: atmospheric, terrestrial (i.e., land and water), and oceanic
domains. Third, Thailand has engaged in implementing capacity-building initiatives
as well as Actions for Climate Empowerment (ACE) under Article 6 of the UNFCCC,
which involves not only climate knowledge dissemination but also the environmental
rights of the public to participate and access climate information. Finally, ONEP acts
as a primary entity for climate information sharing, and Thailand cooperates with
international communities at bilateral, regional, and multilateral levels to address
climate change issues.

CONSTRAINTS, GAPS, NEEDS, AND SUPPORT RECEIVED
Thailand has received support from various international partners to facilitate
climate actions in mitigation, adaptation, and enabling environment, including
the preparation of Thailand's Fourth National Communication (NC4) and Third Biennial
Update Report (BUR3) to the UNFCCC. From 2020-2022, Thailand has received support
from multilateral and bilateral partners for a total of 34 projects, entailing 18 mitigation
projects with a total amount of 31,438,771 USD, 10 adaptation projects with a total
amount of 48,667,056 USD, and 6 enabling environment projects with a total amount
of 3,419,548 USD. Most support was a combination of technical support and capacity
building.
However, considering remaining constraints and gaps, Thailand still needs international
support in terms of finance, technical expertise, technology transfer, and capacity
building to ensure the achievement of LT-LEDS in a short-term period (2025-2035), a
mid-term period (2040-2050), and a long-term period (2050-2065). More support is
needed, particularly for technology development and transfer, which is essential for
mitigation and adaptation implementation. For mitigation, Thailand needs support
for the energy transition toward renewable sources focusing on renewable energy
technologies (such as solar and wind), enhancing the potential use of Carbon Capture
Storage (CCS) & Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) technologies, and
developing other technologies to achieve GHG emission reduction and a net-zero
emission. For adaptation, support is needed for developing a data map showing areas at
risk of climate change impacts and accessible viable adaptive technology. To enhance
the enabling environment, Thailand requires support for developing and strengthening
mechanisms, instruments, and policy implementation, such as financial instruments
and incentives to engage private sectors in green investment and capacity building for
all stakeholders to integrate climate actions into their respective practice and plans.