THAILAND:


CHAPTER 3:

MITIGATION MEASURES

Thailand has put all efforts within its capacity to uphold its commitment under
the Convention by integrating climate change mitigation into its national and sectoral
policies and plans and implementing mitigating measures to achieve the national GHG
reduction targets—NAMA’s target to reduce GHG emission by 7-20% from BAU by
2020 and NDC’s target to reduce GHG emission by 20-25% from BAU by 2030. Thailand
submitted the 2nd updated NDC, which aligns with an ambitious pledge to reduce GHG
emissions by 30 % from the BAU level by 2030. The contribution level increases to
40%, subject to adequate and enhanced access to technology development and
transfer, financial resources, and capacity-building support. Furthermore, Thailand will
continue efforts to meet the long-term goals of carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero
GHG emissions by 2065.
This chapter lays out Thailand’s national, sectoral, and municipal mitigation policies and
plans. The national plans include the 20-Year National Strategy, 12th National Economic
and Social Development Plan, Climate Change Master Plan, Nationally Appropriate
Mitigation Action (NAMA), Thailand’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC), and
Long-Term Low Greenhouse Gas Emission Development Strategy (LT-LEDS). Aligning
with the economy wide, the climate mitigation agenda is also incorporated into sectoral
plans in emission-intensive sectors—energy, transport, IPPU, and waste sectors.
Subsequently, this chapter sums up the overall implementation of NAMA’s measures,
its GHG reduction achievement, and the transition toward the NDC implementation. It
further illustrates other mitigation actions, including voluntary actions from the carbon
market and carbon label schemes which are increasingly developed.

3.1 Policies and plans
Thailand has integrated the climate change agenda into its national, sectoral, and
municipal policies and plans to address the problem systematically and effectively.
3.1.1 National Plans
The climate change agenda, particularly climate mitigation, has been incorporated into
national development policies, strategies, and plans, including the 20-year National
Strategy, the 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan, the Climate Change
Master Plan, the Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA), the Nationally
Determined Contribution (NDC), and the Long-Term Low Greenhouse Gas Emission
Development Strategy.

74

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
The 20-Year National Strategy 2018 – 2037
The 20-Year National Strategy (2018-2037) is the country’s first national long-term
strategy developed pursuant to the Constitution Section 65 stipulating that the State
should develop a national strategy to be employed as the country’s goal for sustainable
national development in accordance with the principle of good governance. One of
the key strategies is the “Eco-Friendly Development and Growth,” aiming to
1) conserve and preserve natural resources and environment as well as culture for
the next generation’s sustainability, 2) restore and reconstruct natural resources and
the environment for mitigation of negative impacts that may arise from national
economic and social development, 3) ensure balanced utilization of the natural resource
and environmental base by balancing development with ecosystem capacity, and
4) ensure the country’s paradigm shift for the determination the country’s natural resources
and environment, as well as culture, based on good governance and public participation.
This development strategy seeks to achieve all development aspects of the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), including promoting mutual growth in terms of the economy,
environment, and quality of life. The focus is to create balance among these three factors
to promote sustainability for future generations.
The National Strategy recognizes that climate change impacts have been anticipated to
intensify concerning variability, frequency, and coverage. Such impacts will inevitably
threaten lives, damage properties and necessary infrastructure, and affect agricultural
production and water security. At the same time, ecological systems are likely to
deteriorate. Given this recognition, Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and values of
the bioeconomy are one of the key indicators for this development goal. The strategic
guideline to promote sustainable climate-friendly based society growth focuses on the
following points:
• Mitigation measures: reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting
a low-carbon society, supporting agricultural management to benefit from greenhouse
gas reductions, accelerating the restoration of deteriorated forests, and expanding
forest areas to function as carbon storage areas.
• Adaptation measures: improving the overall disaster management system,
enhancing people’s capacity to cope with and adjust to any harmful impact caused by
climate change, and developing preparedness and response systems for emerging and
reemerging infectious diseases caused by climate change.
• Enabling measures: developing a database system, promoting low-carbon
products and services to systematically reinforce national competitiveness, developing
economic measures to incentivize investments that cope with climate change,
encouraging businesses to plan for climate change, and improving relevant laws to
drive climate change management.
Source: The 20-Year National Strategy 2018 – 2037

75

 
CHAPTER 3
The 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan 2017-2021
The 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan 2017-2021 recognizes that
climate change and natural disasters have become more unpredictable and severe,
particularly floods and droughts, causing impacts on the economic sectors and the
domestic supply chain. Plus, international agreements on climate change and competitive
trade have intensified. Thus, the fourth strategy, "Strategy for Environmentally Friendly
Growth for Sustainable Development," seeks to improve greenhouse gas reduction and
adaptation capacity, lessen the impacts of climate change, and improve the response
to natural disasters. For this target, key indicators include: 1) the volume of greenhouse
gas emissions in the energy and transport sectors decreases by 7% compared to the
business as usual scenario for 2030, 2) the unit costs of GHG emissions reduction decrease
(THB per ton of carbon dioxide equivalent), 3) there are action plans for adaptation to
climate change in each of the priority sectors, such as water resources management,
agriculture, health and forestry, and 4) domestic climate change mitigation mechanisms
are established to provide support in terms of finance, technology, and capacity building.
The development guidelines to support greenhouse gas reduction as well as enhance
adaptive capacity to climate change are as follows:
• Draft and amend laws and regulations related to climate change so that they can
respond to international climate change agreements in an integrated and comprehensive
manner.
• Prescribe measures and mechanisms to support greenhouse gas reduction in all
sectors, emphasizing the following sectors: electricity generation, transport, industry,
households, and buildings. Reduce the use of fossil fuels in generating power while
promoting renewable energy, energy-saving, and waste-to-energy. Build the capacity of
the workforce to excel in various forms of renewable energy. Support sustainable transport
systems, and increase the efficiency of engines, machines, and instruments. Foster the
establishment of financial mechanisms between the public and private sectors in order
to support climate change actions that generate co-benefits. Moreover, encourage the
private sector to invest more in greenhouse gas reduction.
• Promote the private sector, state enterprises, and local administrations to collect
and report information regarding greenhouse gas emissions, mainly from energy usage.
• Enhance the capacity of R&D in science, technology, and innovation (ST&I) to
support climate change adaptation.
• Create knowledge and understanding and raise awareness and public participation
from all stakeholders in response to climate change impacts.

Source: The 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan 2017-2021

76

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
Policy and Plan for Enhancement and Conservation of National Environmental
Quality 2017 – 2036
Under section 13 (1) of the Enhancement and Conservation of National Environmental
Quality Act 1992, the Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and
Planning (ONEP) has prepared the Policy and Plan for the Enhancement and Conservation
of Environmental Quality 2017–2036 as a direction framework for managing natural
resources and the environment of the country in the next 20 years. The objectives are to
be a policy framework and direction for integrally managing natural resources and the
environment in the next 20 years; for all relevant sectors to use it as a guideline for the
preparation of master plans and action plans in the mid- term (5 years) to achieve
appropriate, proactive, and efficient natural resource and environmental management;
and to enhance the environmental management capacity which enable environmentally
friendly economic and social growth, promote equilibrium and sustainable development,
and keep pace with global and regional changes.
The management of natural resources and the environment is based on 10 principles—
Sustainable Development, Ecosystem Approach, Precautionary Principle, Polluters Pay
Principle (PPP), Beneficiaries Pay Principle: BPP, Public-Private Partnership, Good
Governance, Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), Resource Decoupling/Resource
Efficiency, and Human Rights—translating into 4 main policies as follows:
1) A policy to manage natural resources based on balance, fairness, and sustainability:
It focuses on maintaining national biodiversity and balance of the ecosystem, which are
the sources of food, water, and energy security. It aims to create a system that enables
fair access, sharing, and utilization of natural resources within
their limits of regenerating capacity.
2) A policy to generate environmentally friendly growth for wealth and prosperity:
It seeks to provide people with a safe and quality environment, enhance an eco-friendly
economy, and promote a production and consumption system with effective and efficient
natural resource exploitation causing minimum waste and pollution.
3) A policy to enhance measures in natural resource and environmental
management: It targets to create legal, financial, technical, and technology development
mechanisms that enhance the capacity of natural resource management to be efficient
and proactive and support environmentally friendly development and
growth.
4) A policy to create partnerships in natural resource and environmental
management: It aims to involve all sectors in managing and exploiting natural resources
and the environment in the form of mutual ownership by encouraging all sectors to learn
and have joint responsibility with the government, including enhancing the capacity for
international environmental cooperation.
Source: Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP)

77

 
CHAPTER 3
Climate Change Master Plan (2015-2050)
Aligning with the 20-Year National Strategy and the 12th National Economic and Social
Development Plan, Thailand’s Climate Change Master Plan (CCMP) aims for Thailand to
be resilient to the impacts of climate change and achieves low carbon growth through
sustainable development. The objectives of the plan are 1) to provide a long-term national
framework for climate change adaptation and low carbon growth promotion according
to the sustainable development principle; 2) to provide a policy framework for
the development of mechanisms and tools at the sectoral and national level, to achieve
effective resolutions for climate change, 3) to provide government agencies and relevant
organizations with a framework for detailed action plans; facilitating awareness and mutual
understanding by means of a common framework of reference points, thereby increasing
integration and reducing redundant processes, 4) to provide budgeting agencies with
a clear framework for budget allocation, thus enabling the mobilization of concrete
climate change resolutions. The Master Plan also consists of three key strategies: climate
change adaptation, mitigation, low carbon development, and enabling environment on
climate change management. The implementation of these three strategies is divided
into three phases: short-term 2016, medium-term 2020, and long-term 2050. The CCMP
is subject to be revised according to the updated Nationally Determined Contribution
and Long-Term Strategy Target.
The CCMP Strategy 2 “Mitigation and low carbon development” comprises actions and
measures in the following eight sectors:
• Power generation and energy supply—focusing on decreasing fossil fuel
consumption, increasing/developing renewable energy production, and developing
infrastructure which facilitates low carbon development while simultaneously lowering
GHG emissions
• Transport—focusing on increasing the efficiency of transport and logistics,
developing low carbon transport infrastructure, and applying sustainable principles to
manage transport demand
• Energy consumption in buildings—focusing on improving energy conservation
and efficiency in buildings
• Industry—focusing on improving the performance of machinery, energy efficiency,
and waste reduction through measures such as the promotion of renewable energy
production and consumption, and investments in low-carbon and environmentally friendly
industries
• Waste management—focusing on integrated life cycle waste management by
prioritizing source reduction and the 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) in accordance with
the waste hierarchy. Waste management efficiency will be increased by supporting
waste-to-energy programs.
• Agriculture—focusing on low emission agricultural practices with environmental
and financial co-benefits; increasing the capacity of farmers to accommodate GHG
reduction technologies and management systems

78

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
• Forestry—focusing on creating carbon sinks via forest conservation, restoration,
reforestation, and afforestation. Measures that affect communities in forested areas
should be evaluated on the merits of their environmental and social impact via public
hearings of sufficient duration and transparency, which will ultimately aid the decision
and policy-making processes.
• Urban management—focusing on increasing urban green spaces to act as carbon
and pollution sinks which can also help mitigate GHG emissions from human activities
in major cities

Figure 3-1: Overview of Climate Change Master Plan 2015-2050
Source: 1) Thailand’s Climate Change Master Plan (2015-2050) 2) Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy
and Planning (ONEP)

Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA)
Thailand’s GHG mitigation goal committed to UNFCCC can be divided into 2 phases:
Pre-2020 and Post-2020. For the Pre-2020, Thailand’s Nationally Appropriate Mitigation
Action (NAMA) pledged in 2014 to reduce national GHG emissions in the range of 7-20%
from the business-as-usual (BAU) scenario in the energy and transport sectors by 2020,
subject to the level of international support provided. The details of the NAMA Roadmap
and its progress were reported in the BUR3. Thailand implemented NAMA Roadmap
and Action Plan and achieved a GHG emission reduction target. The overall NAMA
implementation will be illustrated in section 3.2, “Mitigation Measures,” of this chapter.

79

 
CHAPTER 3

Figure 3-2: Thailand’s GHG Mitigation Target
Source: 1) Thailand Third Biennial Update Report 2) Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning
(ONEP)

Thailand’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC)
For the Post-2020, on 1 October 2015, Thailand submitted its Intended Nationally
Determined Contribution (INDC) to UNFCCC. It later launched Thailand’s Nationally
Determined Contribution (NDC) Roadmap and Action Plan in 2017, aiming to reduce
GHG emissions by 20-25% from the projected BAU level by 2030. The NDC Roadmap
established a framework for mitigation measures in Energy, Transport, IPPU, and Waste
sectors. To achieve the NDC targets, key agencies have developed NDC Sectoral Action
Plans on greenhouse gas mitigation corresponding to the NDC Roadmap to ensure
the achievement of the pledged target of a 20% reduction from the 2030 BAU. In addition,
key agencies, NDC sectoral focal points, developed the Supportive Action Plan, which
aims to create enabling environment to support the NDC implementation.

80

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Figure 3-3: Overview of Thailand’s NDC Roadmap and Action Plan
Source: Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP)

NDC Sectoral Action Plan for Energy Sector 2021 – 2030
The Energy Policy and Planning Office (EPPO) was assigned by the National Climate
Change Policy Committee (NCCC) to be the main responsible agency for the preparation of
the national greenhouse gas reduction action plan for 2021 – 2030 in the energy sector
together with the Office of Natural Resources and Environment Policy and Plan (ONEP)
and Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO). EPPO, ONEP, and TGO cooperate
with related agencies, such as the Department of Alternative Energy Development
and Efficiency (DEDE), Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), Office of
the Energy Regulatory Commission (OEC), Office of Transport Policy and Planning, and
Traffic (OTP), Chiang Mai University, and private power producers to prepare the details
for the draft action plan aiming to national GHG emissions in the energy sector, which
consists of three key plans:
1) Energy Efficiency Plan (EEP2015) aims to reduce energy intensity (EI) by 30 % in
2036 compared to 2010, which will be implemented in four economic sectors: industrial
sectors, business and government buildings, residential sector, and transport sector.
2) Alternative Energy Development Plan 2015 – 2036 (AEDP2015) aims to increase
the share of renewable energy consumption by considering the potential for renewable
energy sources that can be developed in the form of electricity, heat, and biofuels
accounting for 30 % of final energy consumption by 2036.
3) Power Development Plan 2018 – 2037 (Power Development Plan: PDP2018) has four
main guidelines: 1) promote renewable power generation, 2) allocate main power plants for
81

 
CHAPTER 3

regional energy security according to the necessity and sufficiency to maintain
the stability of the electricity system, 3) renewable energy has an annual purchase policy under
the renewable energy generation policy, and it is purchased at a price not exceeding Grid
Parity to prevent the retail electricity price from rising, and 4) energy conservation policy can
prove convincing with quality and compete with price not exceeding the Grid Parity.
The NDC Sectoral Action Plan for energy sector 2021 – 2030 aims to reduce greenhouse
gases by at least 82 million tCO2 by 2030, compared to a business-as-usual case. The plan
laid down three strategies for greenhouse gas reduction operations: drive GHG reduction
in the energy sector, prepare a long-term strategy for GHG reduction in the energy sector,
and create a network of public, private, and public partnerships.
Source: The Energy Policy and Planning Office (EPPO)

NDC Sectoral Action Plan for Transport Sector 2021 – 2030
The Office of Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning (OTP) has developed the NDC
Sectoral Action Plan for Transport Sector 2021 – 2030, aiming to reduce GHGs by millions
of tons of carbon dioxide equivalent with four key strategies: 1) supporting and promoting
the planned implementation of relevant agencies in the transport sector, 2) developing
and improving laws supporting GHG reduction, 3) developing measurement, reporting
and verification (MRV), and 4) engaging and strengthening the capacity of all agencies
to reduce GHGs. An emphasis is on developing efficient and sustainable transport
systems to reduce energy consumption in the transport sector, lessen traffic congestion,
create livable cities, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which will lead to stable and
sustainable economic growth. Three key measures are as follows:
1) Avoid: developing policies that encourage people to avoid travel or reduce
unnecessary travel distances by integrating urban planning with appropriate transportation
planning, such as developing living spaces in compact areas, the development of the area
around transit-oriented development (TOD), and work-from-home measure promotion.
2) Switch: developing policies that encourage people to switch from using private
vehicles to more efficient and environmentally friendly forms of travel, including public
transport and motorless travel (cycling and walking).
3) Improve: developing policies that improve energy efficiency in motor vehicles
and fuel efficiencies such as automotive energy-saving technology, alternative energy
consumption, promoting gasohol oil consumption, and promoting electric vehicles and
bicycles.
Source: The Office of Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning (OTP)

NDC Sectoral Action Plan for IPPU Sector 2021 – 2030
The Department of Industrial Works (DIW) has prepared the NDC Sectoral Action Plan for
IPPU Sector 2021 – 2030 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the IPPU sector by setting
targets for implementation in 2 phases: 1) Preparation phase (2019 - 2020) is to be
completed in 2020, which is a preparation to support the implementation of measures
according to the NDC roadmap starting in the year 2021; 2) Action Phase (2021-2030)
82

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
targets fordriving key measures and supporting measures to reduce GHG emissions in
the IPPU sector, including wastewater from industries to achieve the goal within the year
2030 according to NDC Roadmap and Action Plan.
The NDC Sectoral Action Plan for IPPU and industrial wastewater consists of three main
measures:
1) Clinker substitution measures with 2 sub-activities: the use of clinker substitutes
in the hydraulic cement production process and the increased use of cement substitutes
in ready-mixed concrete.
2) Refrigerant replacement measures with 2 sub-activities: refrigerant modification
under the RAC NAMA project and the proper disposal of waste and deteriorated
refrigerant.
3) Measures to manage industrial wastewater: consistent and have the potential
to reduce GHG emissions according to the NDC goals guideline, such as measures to
increase biogas production from industrial wastewater by reusing Methane gas according
to the Alternative Energy Development Plan 2015 – 2036 (AEDP2015), which sets goals
for the use of biogas from industrial wastewater, agricultural waste ranch, and community
waste to be utilized to generate electricity and heat.
Source: The Department of Industrial Works (DIW)

NDC Sectoral Action Plan for Waste Sector 2021 – 2030
In conjunction with the relevant authorities, the Pollution Control Department (PCD) has
developed the NDC Sectoral Action Plan for Waste Sector 2021-2030, targeting to
reduce GHG emissions of 2.0 million tCO2eq from municipal solid waste and municipal and
industrial wastewater. 65% of this target (1.3 million tCO 2eq) is expected from
implementing measures in the municipal solid waste sector, while 35% (0.7 million tCO2eq)
is expected from implementing measures in wastewater management. The plan is divided
into 2 parts: 1) NDC Action Plan in the municipal waste management sector, prepared
by the Pollution Control Department, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment,
and 2) NDC Action Plan in the industrial processes and product use, including industrial
wastewater sector, prepared by the Department of Industrial Works, Ministry of Industry.
The prospective mitigation measures in municipal solid waste management include:
1) landfill gas utilization, 2) waste to energy, 3) composting, 4) semi-aerobic landfill, 5)
anaerobic digestion, and 6) mechanical biological treatment, whereas the potential
mitigation measure in industrial wastewater management is methane recovery from
industrial wastewater treatment. The MRV systems for implementation of NDC measures,
including landfill gas utilization, waste to energy, composting, and methane recovery
from industrial wastewater treatment, have been accomplished. Additionally, supportive
mechanisms for effective implementation of the sectoral action plans in the waste sector,
such as research and development, capacity building, and stakeholder engagement, are
being executed.
Source: The Pollution Control Department (PCD)

83

 
CHAPTER 3
Second Updated Thailand’s Nationally Determined Contribution (2nd Updated NDC)
At the World Leader Summit COP26 on 1 November 2021, Thailand’s Prime Minister
expressed Thailand’s intention to fully elevate climate mitigation measures by all means.
Thailand aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero Greenhouse Gas emissions
by 2065. Furthermore, Thailand aims to increase the NDC target to reduce 40% of GHG
emissions compared to BAU by 2030, given that the international community, through
the mechanism of the Convention, can provide necessary financial, technical, technology,
and capacity-building supports. Based on a more ambitious pledge, Thailand updated
the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) and Long-Term Low Greenhouse Gas
Emission Development Strategy (LT-LEDs) to reflect national targets aligning with
the Prime Minister’s statement. The 2nd Updated NDC was submitted to the UNFCCC
on 4 November 2022.
The revised NDC concept framework of Thailand is similar to that of Thailand’s LongTerm Low Greenhouse Gas Emission Development Strategy (LT-LEDS). The revised NDC
is carried out with reference to the planned implementation goals of each relevant
Ministry in the energy, IPPU, Agriculture, LULUCF, and waste management sectors. The
plans include the Energy Efficiency Plan 2018–2037 (EEP2018), the Alternative Energy
Development Plan 2018–2037 (AEDP2018), the Power Development Plan 2018–2037
No. 1 revised edition (PDP2018 Rev.1), and the guidelines for the promotion of electric
vehicles (EV) of the country according to the 30@30 policy. Measures from the agricultural
sector were incorporated into the revised NDC goal and guidelines to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions. The revised NDC guidelines and measures include:
• Energy and transport sector: The energy sector has the most significant
potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It includes measures to increase
the energy efficiency of equipment/machines in power plants and renewable energy
utilization.
• IPPU sector, comprising clinker substitution measures and the refrigerant
replacement.
• Waste management sector consists of municipal solid waste management,
domestic wastewater management, and industrial wastewater management.
• Agriculture sector consists of fixed dome digester biogas production measures
and improvements in rice farming to reduce methane emissions.
Source: Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP)

Thailand’s Long-Term Low Greenhouse Gas Emission Development Strategy (LT-LEDS)
The implementation of Thailand’s Long-Term Low Greenhouse Gas Emission
Development Strategy is in accordance with Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, which
requires all countries to develop and communicate a long-term strategy for low GHG
emission development to the UNFCCC Secretariat aiming to limit global temperature
from rising above 2°C or 1.5°C. Thailand sets long-term targets and guidelines for GHG
reduction toward carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero emission in 2065 by identifying
key measures in the sectors of energy, transport, IPPU, waste, agriculture, and LULUCF,
which is the GHG removal sector of the country, for relevant agencies and sectors to use
as operational guidelines.
84

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
ONEP revised and updated LT-LEDS and NDC with support from the Deutsche
Gesellshaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH to study, improve, and
formulate a long-term strategy for the country’s low emissions development and set GHG
reduction targets under the NDC consistent with the Prime Minister’s statement at the
COP26 meeting. The revised LT-LEDS was submitted to the UNFCCC on 7 November
2022. The revised LT-LEDS sets goals and measures aligning with an increase in global
average temperatures of 1.5°C and moving toward carbon neutrality by 2050. It was
developed by using the Asia-Pacific Integrated Assessment Model (AIMEnduse) to project
the long-term low-level greenhouse gas emissions, including remedial policy measures
for climate change adaptation action, and using a computable general equilibrium (AIM/
CGE) model to assess the economic and environmental impacts of energy policy and
others in the development of LT-LEDS. The current national plans used to develop and
define LT-LEDS are as follows:
• 20-Year National Strategy 2018-2037
• Climate Change Master Plan 2015-2050
• Thailand Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) 2021-2030
• National Energy Plan (2022)
• Energy Efficiency Plan 2018-2037 (EEP 2018)
• Alternative Energy Development Plan 2018-2037 (AEDP 2018)
• Power Development Plan 2018-2037 ( PDP 2018 Rev.1)
• The guideline for promoting electric vehicles (EV) under policy 30@30
• National Industrial Development Master Plan 2012-2031
• Industrial Development Strategy of Thailand 4.0 2017-2036
• Thailand Forest Reference Emission Level and Forest Reference Level REDD+
under the UNFCCC
• 20-Year Strategy of the Royal Forest Department 2017-2036
Source: Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP)

3.1.2 Sectoral Plans
3.1.2.1 Energy Sector
Moving toward Carbon Neutrality in 2050, the Ministry of Energy is developing details in
the National Energy Plan 2022 Framework, consisting of 5 key plans:
• Power Development Plan 2018-2037 (PDP): The plan includes constructing new
power plants with clean energy sources; phasing out fossil-fuel power plants; enhancing
CCUS technology; developing an energy management system and energy forecast system;
liberalizing the energy business; creating the wheeling charge system; and promoting EV
and EV charging station production and purchasing system.
• Alternative Energy Development Plan 2018-2037 (AEDP): It aims to increase
the renewable energy generation target and investment; enhance the renewable energy
(RE) management and trade; develop RE at community levels to elevate farmers’ standard
of living and grassroots economy; formulate Data Platform and RE control center, research

85

 
CHAPTER 3
and develop the Hydrogen utilization; and develop Bio Circular Economy, carbon credits
mechanism and RECs, and biofuel market for energy and heat production.
• Energy Efficiency Plan 2018-2037 (EEP): It seeks to enhance energy efficiency
in buildings, industries, and households; promote green industries and Smart Energy
Management; and develop digital and EV Data platforms and charging stations to
promote electric vehicle utilization
• Gas Plan 2018-2037: Its targets include enhancing LNG importation and
management; promoting LNG use in industrial and transport sectors; developing capacity
assessment and management system; and managing land-based and marine-based gas
sources.
• Oil Plan 2018-2037: It intends to improve the standard of an oil refinery to
EURO 5 and 6 and LNG and NGV management; promote proper biofuel utilization in
the transport sector; develop an oil database and control system; reconstruct oil price
and reduce biofuel cost; and manage oil industry to accommodate EV utilization.
The policy direction of National Energy Plan aims for 4 targets: increasing renewable
energy to at least 50 %, transitioning the energy used in transportation to green energy by
promoting electric vehicles to reduce GHG emissions and particulate matters,
increasing energy efficiency by 30 % by utilizing technology and innovation to optimize
energy efficiency and management, and modifying the energy business structure to
embrace energy transition according to the 4D1E framework (Decarbonization,
Digitalization, Decentralization, Deregulation, and Electrification).

Figure 3-4 : Policy Direction of National Energy Plan 2022
Source: The Energy Policy and Planning Office (EPPO)

86

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
3.1.2.2 Transport Sector
Thailand’s Transport Infrastructure Development Plan 2015-2022
Thailand’s Transport Infrastructure Development Plan 2015-2022 is a development framework
that seeks to improve people’s quality of life by mobilizing long-term economic and social
development, creating jobs, distributing income, stimulating the economy, and ensuring
the safety of people’s lives and properties. Five Action Plans are developing an intercity
rail network, improving public transport networks, enhancing connectivity between key
domestic production bases and neighboring countries, increasing water transport networks,
and enhancing air transport capability.

1.1 Tracking &
Facilities
Improvemet

1.2 Dual Track
Development

5.1 Airport
Capability
Expension
2.1 Implementation
of 10 Metro Lines

2.2 Condtruction of
Roads & Bridges

2.3 Implementation
3,183 NGV Buses
and Depots

5.2 Enhancement in
Air Traffic
Management
Capability
5.3 Increased Fleet
Utilization
5.4 Air Transport
Industrial Park
5.5 Human Resource
Development

Figure 3-5: Thailand’s Transport Infrastructure Development Action Plan
Source: Office of Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning

3.1.2.3 Industrial Sector
National Industrial Development Master Plan 2012-2031
As climate change is one of the key factors affecting the changing dynamic of the Thai
industrial sector, National Industrial Development Master Plan 2012-2031 aims to achieve
sustainable production that takes into account social and environmental considerations
“Environmentally Friendly - Green and Clean.” The development in the industrial
sector should reflect a green growth industry, climate resilience society, and low
carbon society. Therefore, the industrial development framework in the master plan aims
to strike a balance between 4 dimensions: 1) Enhancing economic wealth and security,
2) Utilizing human wisdom for innovation and value creation for sustainable development,
3) Securing social well-being and reducing social inequality, and 4) Promoting
environmental wellness to raise public awareness for environmental conservation and
improving regulations and their enforcement to support environmentally friendly
production and eliminate negative externalities.

87

 
CHAPTER 3
Thailand’s Industrial Development Strategy 4.0 (2017-2036)
In the fourth phase of industrial development, Thailand seeks to shift the paradigm into
an innovative-driven economy targeting prosperity, security, and sustainability through
three mechanisms: productive growth engine, inclusive growth engine, and green
growth engine. The green growth engine focuses on environmentally friendly technology
development and renewable energy transition. The development perspective shifts from
cost advantage to loss advantage—considering the benefits of overall loss mitigation.
The cornerstone is ensuring that the production process internalizes the negative
externalities and minimizes adverse environmental effects. The green growth
engine solves the “inequitable development trap” between the environment and
human needs. The phases and mechanisms of industrial development in Thailand can
be illustrated in the Figure below:

• Middle Income Trap
• Inequality Trap
• Imbalance Trap

• Productive Growth Engine
• Inclusive Growth Engine
• Green Growth Engine

• Prosperity
• Security
• Sustainability

Figure 3-6: Industrial development phases of Thailand and mechanisms
for industrial development 4.0
Source: 1) National Industrial Development Master Plan 2012-2031 2) Thailand’s Industrial Development Strategy 4.0
(2017-2036)

Green Industry
The Ministry of Industry launched Thailand’s Green Industry Initiative and established
two implementation guidelines:
1. Set guidelines and create a concrete green industry under two main concepts:
continuous improvement and sustainable development
2. Integrate environmentally relevant projects of all departments within the Ministry
of Industry under the green industry projects
Thailand’s Green Industry Initiative is implemented on a voluntary basis to conduct
business in a community and environmentally friendly manner for sustainable
development. Green industry means industry committed to continuously improving
production processes and environmentally friendly business management and
adhering to business operations with the responsibility to society both inside and

88

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
outside the organization throughout the supply chain. The Ministry of Industry
promotes the industry sector in Thailand to achieve environmentally and
socially friendly operations by encouraging establishments nationwide to integrate
environmentally friendly practices into business operations and continue to evolve
into green industries on 5 levels. The industries can acquire benefits according to
the level achieved such as using Green Industry logo or acquiring governmental
procurement. The 5 levels of implementation are as follows:
• Level 1: Green Commitment is a manifestation of commitment in the form of
policies, goals, and plans to reduce environmental impacts and have communications
within the organization.
• Level 2: Green Activity is the implementation of policies by having goals and
a roadmap to reduce environmental impacts in a concrete way and achieve the set
commitments.
• Level 3: Green System is systematic environmental management—monitoring,
evaluation, and review for continuous development or awarding recognized or accredited
environmental awards related to the conservation of resources and
environments.
• Level 4: Green Culture is when everyone in the organization has a common
conscience to preserve and maintain a good environment and cooperate in all aspects
of the business to be environmentally friendly and take action to become part of
the corporate culture.
• Level 5: Green Network is an extension of the scope of the green industry from
within the organization itself and throughout the supply chain by encouraging partners
to be part of the green industry.

Figure 3-7: Green Industry levels and its benefits
Source: Ministry of Industry

89

 
CHAPTER 3

3.1.2.4 Waste Sector
Draft National Waste Management Action Plan 2022-2027
The Draft National Waste Management Action Plan 2022 – 2027 was prepared as
a framework and guidelines to drive waste management operations to align with
the country’s development guidelines and the global context. The Action Plan is set to
frame new waste management for a clean environment and promote a sustainable society
and the following principles:
• Bio-Economy, Circular Economy, and Green Economy (BCG Model) consists of
three elements: 1) Bio-Economy aims to enhance technology and innovation to develop
biological resources or agricultural products such as the development of biodegradable
plastics (compostable plastics) or alternative plastic products from natural materials,
2) Circular economy focuses on bringing used resources or products back to the production
process again to be recycled or processed into a new product, creating value for waste
and reducing the amount of waste in the manufacturing sector to zero (Zero Waste), and
3) Green Economy promotes the use of environmentally friendly production technology
such as using bio-based substances instead of chemical pesticides. The BCG Model is
a strategy to develop the national economy by balancing economic growth and natural
resource sustainability.
• 3R principle (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle): Reduce the waste generation at the source
in the process of design, production, and consumption, reuse the packaging waste or
waste material without processing or reprocessing, and recycle waste materials by
processing in the production process and produces a new product.
• Polluter Pays Principles (PPP): Economic tool used to manage natural resources
and the environment. The polluters must bear the cost of preventing damage to human
health or the environment.
• Public-Private Partnership: All sectors should participate in waste management
from production, import, distribution, consumption, and management at the destination,
which encourages the private sector to invest or jointly invest in the operation of a waste
management system.
• Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR): The principle encourages producers
to take responsibility for their products after public consumption by jointly paying
the production handling fee and participating in waste recovery for reuse, recycling, and
environmentally safe disposal. It also encourages the producers to modify the design
and manufacturing process to be more environmentally friendly by reducing the use of
harmful substances in products and consider designing and manufacturing products that
will last a lifetime.
The objectives for implementing the National Waste Management Action Plan (2022 – 2027)
by the year 2027 seek to have 80% of solid waste properly managed, 60% of household
hazardous waste properly managed, 100% of infectious waste properly managed, and
100 % of hazardous industrial waste correctly processed in the management system.
The implementation measures focus on “Reduce and Enhance”—reducing the generation
of solid waste and hazardous waste at source and enhancing capacity to manage solid
waste and hazardous waste, promoting solid waste and hazardous waste management.

90

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Figure 3-8: Bio-Economy, Circular Economy, and Green Economy (BCG Model)
Source: The Office of National Higher Education Science Research and Innovation Policy Council (NXPO)

Thailand’s Roadmap on Plastic Waste Management 2018 – 2030
According to the Pollution Control Department report in 2019, the amount of plastic waste
was 1.91 million tons, and 0.36 million tons (about 19%) were recycled. The COVID-19
pandemic also intensifies theplastic waste problem. In addition, a 2021 UN comprehensive
assessment report, released before COP26, emphasized that plastics are a climate
problem. Plastics, the by-product of fossil fuels, contribute to GHG emissions throughout
the life cycle, from production to disposal. Acknowledging that plastic waste and the
climate change problems are intertwined, Thailand has formulated the Plastic Waste
Management Roadmap 2018-2030 to move toward sustainable plastic management
based on the principle of Circular Economy, seeking to serve as a framework and direction
for preventing and solving the plastic waste problem in the country. The roadmap’s
underlying principles include Circular Economy, Responsible Production and
Consumption, Public-Private Partnership, and Life Cycle Approach.
Guidelines for operation under the roadmap are divided into 3 measures: 1) Measures
to reduce the generation of plastic waste at the source, 2) Measures to reduce the use of
single-use plastic (Single-use Plastic) in the process of consumption, and 3) Measures to
manage the plastic waste after consumption by supporting and encouraging them to be
reused. The roadmap also defines the roles, duties, and responsibilities of relevant
agencies in the implementation of the draft Roadmap in all sectors. It further defines
various mechanisms for the Roadmap mobilization, such as enhancing knowledge
and understanding with relevant agencies, people, and consumers in order to develop
integrated cooperation for the operation and public relations campaign through social
media. There will be studies and target setting on recycled plastics and plastic waste
that cannot be recycled to be disposed of properly.

91

 
CHAPTER 3
The mechanism of plastic waste management and its roadmap can be illustrated in
the Figure below:

Figure 3-9: Thailand’s Roadmap on Plastic Waste Management 2018 – 2030
Source:1) Pollution Control Department 2) Draft National Waste Management Action Plan 2022-2027 3) Thailand’s
Roadmap on Plastic Waste Management 2018 – 2030

3.1.3 Municipality Plan
Draft Bangkok Climate Change Master Plan 2021-2030
In 2021, Bangkok Metropolitan Administrator (BMA) and the Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA) developed the draft Bangkok Master Plan on Climate Change
2021-2030. The Master Plan aims to align with the Nationally Determined Contribution
(NDC) in terms of both the policy andthe implementation timeframe. It will significantly
contribute to Bangkok's long term vision to achieve net-zero GHG emissions by 2050.
The plan outlines the development of key measures for GHG reduction and climate
change adaptation, including institutional structures, monitoring and evaluation (M&E),
and measurement, reporting, and verification (MRV) systems.
Bangkok intends to achieve the GHG emission reduction target and the response to climate
change by setting the target and the commitment to reduce its GHG emissions by 19%
compared to the BAU from the base year of 2018 by 2030 and to have the long-term
goal under the vision to continually reduce greenhouse gases toward a “net-zero
emission city” by 2050. The mitigation measures of GHG reduction under this master
plan cover 4 sectors: transport, energy, waste and wastewater, and green urban planning.
The significant sectors for GHG emissions reduction are energy and transport, with
a reduction target of 94% of the total, and the remaining 6% is from the waste
management sector. Green urban planning is the sector that does not directly reduce
GHG emissions but helps to absorb GHGs in the atmosphere.

92

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Figure 3-10: Bangkok’s interim target by 2030 and long-term vision toward
net-zero emission by 2050
Source: Bangkok Metropolitan Administrator (BMA)

3.2 Mitigation Measures
3.2.1 Thailand’s Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA)
3.2.1.1 Domestic NAMA
Thailand proclaimed its Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA) to reduce
national GHG emissions from the energy and transport sectors compared to
the Business as Usual (BAU) by stating that Thailand had the potential to reduce
GHG emissions by 7-20 % by 2020. After the target was set, Thailand developed
a system to monitor and assess the amount of GHGs reduction from domestic measures,
especially measures on energy and transport. Thailand has implemented monitoring
and evaluation of GHG reductions as follows:
1) A GHG reduction reporting structure was established according to the Domestic
MRV structure approved by the National Committee on Climate Change Policy, as
illustrated in Chapter 1.
2) The mechanism of the Working Group on GHG Inventory and Mitigation
Measures in the energy sector, as referred to in Chapter 1, “Institutional Arrangement,”
was employed in selecting the appropriate measures/policy for monitoring and evaluating
GHG reduction according to the criteria. Once the measures/policies were obtained, a
method for calculating the GHG reduction was developed, and the Coefficient/Emission
Factor was designated. The MRV process for activity data and calculating GHG reduction
from measures/policy was commenced to prepare a report on greenhouse gas reduction
results.
3) When the Working Group on GHG Inventory and Mitigation Measures approved
the detailed information in the second step, they would send the official information to
the relevant Ministries, i.e., the Climate Change Coordinating Working Group under

93

 
CHAPTER 3
the Ministry of Energy, to consider the following: appropriate measures/policies for
monitoring and evaluating GHG reductions, GHG reduction calculation methods, MRV
process structure for activity data, and GHG reductions from measures/policy and GHG
reduction reports. When the Ministries approved, they must notify the secretary of the
Working Group on GHG Inventory and Mitigation Measures. In case of disagreement or
amendments, the Ministries could propose and stress the issues that need to be revised.
4) After the relevant Ministries have considered and approved the details under
the third step, the Ministry’s consideration would be submitted to the Subcommittee on
Climate Change Knowledge and Database for further approval.
5) Once the Subcommittee on Climate Change Knowledge and Database
has approved, the GHG reduction results would be presented to and approved by
the National Committee on Climate Change Policy. After approval, GHG reduction results
would be reported in the BUR and NC reports.

For the first phase, achieving the NAMA’s target was the first steppingstone toward
Thailand’s success in reducing GHG emissions in line with the goals of the 20-Year National
Strategy, National Reform Plans, the National Economic and Social Development Plan, and
the country’s Climate Change Master Plan focusing on developing a low-carbon economy.
Since 2015, the Ministry of Energy by the Climate Change Coordinating Working Group
has assigned the Energy Policy and Planning Office (EPPO) to be the coordination unit
for implementing the monitoring and evaluation report on GHG reductions from energy
measures. In 2019, the Office of Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning (OTP) started
reporting GHG reduction in the transport sector. The results of the GHG reductions from
2013 - 2019 are summarized as follows:
• In 2013, the GHG reduction was 14.34 MtCO2eq, equivalent to (3.91%) compared to BAU.
• In 2014, the GHG reduction was 37.47 MtCO2eq, equivalent to (10.21%) compared to BAU.
• In 2015, the GHG reduction was 40.14 MtCO2eq, equivalent to (10.94%) compared to BAU.
• In 2016, the GHG reduction was 45.68 MtCO2eq, equivalent to (12.45%) compared to BAU.
• In 2017, the GHG reduction was 51.72 MtCO2eq, equivalent to (14.09%) compared to BAU.
• In 2018, the GHG reduction was 57.84 MtCO2eq, equivalent to (15.76%) compared to BAU.
• In 2019, the GHG reduction was 64.20 MtCO2eq, equivalent to (17.49%) compared to BAU.
(Including transport sector)
In 2020, Thailand reduced GHG emissions to 56.54 MtCO2eq (15.40%) from 10 mitigation
measures in the energy and transport sectors.

94

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Figure 3-11: Thailand’s GHG emission reduction from NAMA implementation 2013-2020
Source: Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP)

Important lessons learned from the implementation of NAMAs which can be beneficial
for the preparation of new mitigation measures are as follows:
1) The formation of the NAMA mitigation roadmap for the energy and transport
sectors in line with the existing plans of government agencies contributed to the success
of respective mitigation measures.
2) The development of a domestic MRV system to track progress toward
NAMA targets involved the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of
Energy, and Ministry of Transport, as well as strong cooperation from other stakeholders
in the public and private sectors.
3) Apart from GHG reduction, other environmental co-benefits could be integrated
into Thailand’s policies and measures, such as biodiversity conservation, air pollution
reduction, and marine litter management, creating multilateral cooperation under other
conventions.
Source: Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP)

95

 
CHAPTER 3
3.2.1.2 International Support
Apart from the national efforts to achieve NAMA’s target, Thailand received international
support in two key projects to reduce GHG emissions:
RAC NAMA
RAC NAMA project, or Thailand Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Nationally Appropriate
Mitigation Action, is commissioned by the NAMA Facility on behalf of the German
Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, and Nuclear Safety and the UK’s
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy and implemented by GIZ with
support from Department of Alternative Energy Development and Efficiency (DEDE) and
Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP). A milestone
for the IPPU sector, contributing to the NDC achievement with a total emission reduction
of 35,000 tCO2eq. The project implementation can be classified and illustrated as follows:
• Policy: The MRV system has been set for the RAC NAMA project through
the policy and technical recommendations so that Thailand can report the implementation
following the commitment under the Convention and elevate the emission reduction
targets in this sector. The RAC NAMA safety system was demonstrated to relevant
stakeholders to mimic the actual leakage and designate the intensity of leakage from
the system. The result showed the efficiency of the system without any hazards.
• Technology and training: The training center was founded to train chief
mechanics on the safe handling of flammable refrigerants. Nine business operators were
adequately trained to transition the production line and development. The industries
and prototype passed the safety test. The testing operational labs within the Ministry of
Industries were reconditioned to support the testing of air condition using flammable
refrigerants according to new standards of IEC, EN, and TISI 1529-2561
• Financial support: The RAC NAMA fund was established with 8.3 million EUR
or about 300 million THB by EGAT in the name of the Thai government to be the fund
manager. The fund aims to promote the production and utilization of eco-friendly and
energy-efficient refrigeration technology. EGAT has provided financial aid through various
financial instruments for the past two years.
• Supply-side: for the producers to transition their production lines, EGAT provided
1) a short-term loan for one year without interest for 52 million THB and 2) grants for 80
million THB.
• Demand-side: 1) over 10 million THB as a subsidy to induce consumers to
purchase eco-friendly refrigerators and 2) over 146 million THB as subsidy without interest
for marketing measures
• Service sector: 1) 15 million THB of grants to purchase equipment for the 8
training centers and 2) 2.5 million THB grants for reconditioning testing operational labs
at electric and electronics institutes.

96

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
Thai Rice NAMA
Thai Rice NAMA is a cooperative project between MOAC and GIZ, funded by NAMA
Facility. This project, implemented from 2018 to 2023, promotes converting traditional
to sustainable rice cultivation or GAP++ by adopting Alternative wetting and drying
(AWD), site-specific nutrient management (SSNM), and crop residue management.
The project targets is 100,000 farmer households in Thailand’s Central plain area (6
provinces). The implementation and progress of the project can be described as
follows:
• GHG emission reduction: It targets GHG reduction of 1.7 million tCO2eq. in
a 5-year period (2018-2023). In 2021, the emission decreased by 160,000 tCO2eq.Due
to the COVID-19 pandemic, drought, and floods, the implementation is delayed.
• Technology transfer: Emission reduction technologies were transferred to and
widely adopted by farmers consisting of Alternative wetting and drying (AWD), Laser Land
Leveling, site-specific nutrient management (SSNM), and crop residue management.
• Policy and management: The Sustainable Rice Platform National Chapter was
established as a forum to engage all stakeholders in developing Thai GAP++ (Sustainable
rice standard). The Sustainable Rice Standard has been circulated for public hearing. Now
it is in the process of revision before submission for Agriculture Standard Committee’s
approval and announcement. The standard promotes rice cultivation method that is
internationally recognized as contributing to climate mitigation and adaptation.
• Technical and capacity building: Series of training on sustainable rice
cultivation were provided for 295 officials from the Rice Department (RD) and Department
of Agricultural Extension (DOAE) and 13,220 farmers, the entire rice fields of approximately
63,450 ha. There was a series of training to build capacity for the service providers on
Laser Land Leveling technology. Subsequently, the service providers used this technology
to level the rice fields to 69 farmers in 151.24 ha.
• Financial mechanism: Pre-finance mechanism was established by having the Bank
for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) as a grant manager. By integrating
the project into BAAC’s green finance mechanism, 1,328,444 THB were provided for
farmers to prepare rice fields using Laser Land Leveling technology.
From implementing the Thai Rice NAMA project, the RD, BAAC, and GIZ considered
that sustainable rice cultivation benefited Thailand’s economic, social, and environmental
development and enhanced the farmers’ standard of living. The relevant agencies
continue to scale up and expand the project implementation to other provincial parts of
Thailand. As an Accredited Entity, GIZ held a discussion session with the ONEP and BAAC
to develop a concept note for strengthening Climate Smart Rice Farming and submit
this concept project to Green Climate Fund: GCF in 2021. The approval is to be followed.
Another extension from the Thai Rice NAMA is the project of Strengthening ClimateSmart Rice Value Chains, aiming to improve the capacity of rice farmers and service
providers on climate mitigation and adaption technology. The project targets 250,000
farmer households in 15 provinces with emissions from rice fields of 3.7 million tCO2eq.
The project will be developed through a rice cultivation paradigm shift, rice value chain
generation, and private sector participation.
Source: Bangkok Metropolitan Administrator (BMA)
97

 
CHAPTER 3
3.2.2 Preparation for NDC Transition
When NAMA ended in 2020, Thailand has transitioned toward the second phase, i.e.,
Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) that focuses on reducing GHG emissions in
the energy, transport, IPPU, and waste management sectors which is more challenging
than the first phase. Therefore, it is necessary to have various mechanisms for operations
to achieve the goals. ONEP has prepared the following:
3.2.2.1 Preparation for NDC Tracking System
Thailand has established the MRV system to track progress on climate mitigation measures
under the NDC Roadmap 2021-2030. MRV system plays a significant role in steering
the implementation of mitigation measures to achieve the targets set by responsible
agencies in the following sectors: Energy, Transport, IPPU, and Waste. It also enables
all relevant stakeholders’ engagement, including the public sector, private sector,
academic institutions, international organizations, and citizens, to acknowledge problems
and constraints arising from such implementation. Thus, the mitigation policies, plans, and
measures can be revised, making them appropriate and in line with the current situation.
ONEP, as a national focal point of the Convention, the Ministry of Energy, Ministry of
Industry, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and the private sectors has
prepared to measure, report, and verify the implementation of mitigation measures under
the NDC Roadmap on three sectors: Energy, IPPU, and Waste.
In the Energy sector, the information form and methodology were developed.
The handbook on MRV will be prepared to apply for 1) measures enhancing
energy efficiency from reusing heat (energy production and industrial use), 2) measures
enhancing energy efficiency from electricity used in the manufacturing industry, and
3) measures enhancing energy efficiency from heat production in the manufacturing
industry. In the IPPU sector, the representatives from the Ministry of Industry, Thai Cement
Manufacturers Association, and Thailand Concrete Association have discussed and
prepared the MRV system. As a result, the MRV framework will be applied to
clinker substitution measures in hydraulic cement production. In the Waste sector, ONEP
initiated a working session with TGO and PCD to develop a methodology for GHG
emission reduction, designate the emission factors, test the MRV system, and improve
the MRV handbook for measures on municipal solid waste management and biogas
production from industrial wastewater.
3.2.2.2 Study and analysis of guidelines for reporting GHG reduction and developing
a system to collect and link data from all sectors under the Enhanced Transparency
Framework (ETF) of the Paris Agreement
ONEP has prepared a study and an analysis of activity data reporting patterns and
supporting information in various fields from measures under the national participation
mechanism established in accordance with the Enhanced Transparency Framework under
the framework of the Paris Agreement Work Program (PAWP) and the resolutions of
the Conference of Parties (COP). This preparation aims to develop a TGEIS system to
support GHG inventory and the MRV system for NDC tracking. ONEP has also analyzed
the monitoring and evaluation guidelines to cover the NDC action plan for 2021–2030.
98

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

3.2.2.3 Preparation for an economic and social impact assessment on LT-LEDS
measures implementation
ONEP has prepared a study to assess the economic and social impacts of
the implementation of greenhouse gas reduction measures under the long-term national
strategy by gathering information related to the socio-economic impact assessment, such
as general information, socio-economic status, demand-supply condition (demand-supply),
both current and future forecasts, the impact of COVID-19 pandemic, demographics,
employment, and related policies. Subsequently, ONEP has used a model to analyze and
compare the results of overall and sectoral studies of long-term GHG reduction measures
implementation under the case of 1.5 °C and the case where Thailand moves toward
carbon neutrality.
Source: Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP)

3.2.3 Supporting Measures and Voluntary Actions
Clean Development Mechanism: CDM
The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), defined in Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol,
allows a country with an emission-reduction or emission-limitation commitment under
the Kyoto Protocol (Annex B Party) to implement an emission-reduction project in
developing countries. Such projects can earn saleable certified emission reduction
(CER) credits, each equivalent to one ton of CO2, which can be counted toward meeting
Kyoto targets. Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO), as Designated
National Authority of CDM, has issued Letter of Approval to 222 projects. Thailand
has 154 CDM projects registered by the Clean Development Mechanism Executive
Committee (CDM EB), classifying UNFCCC projects into 147 general projects and
7 planned projects (PoA). In addition, Thailand has 70 CDM projects certified for
greenhouse gases (issued CERs) with 15.03 million tCO2eq.

Figure 3-12: Thailand’s GHG emission reduction 2013-2020 from NAMA implementation
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)
99

 
CHAPTER 3
Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM)
The Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) is a bilateral mechanism initiated by Japan to
help Thailand adopt low-carbon technology for greenhouse gas reduction projects with
financial support from the Japanese government. The JCM mechanism is managed by
the Joint Committee, which consists of committees from Japan and Thailand. Greenhouse
gas reduction projects require measurement, reporting, and verification (MRV) to ensure
reliable reduction in greenhouse gases. The Joint Committee endorses the methodology
used to calculate the amount of greenhouse gases that can be reduced. Register and
certify the amount of greenhouse gases that the project reduces, also known as carbon
credits. Certified reductions in greenhouse gases can be used to meet greenhouse gas
reduction targets under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC). From 2015-2021, the Ministry of Environment of Japan has funded 38 of
Thailand’s projects to develop JCM Model Projects, expected to be reduced GHG by
204,968 tCO2eq/year.
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

Low Emission Support Scheme (LESS)
The Low Emission Support Scheme, also known as the LESS project, aims to raise
awareness of greenhouse gas emission reduction and support the operators of greenhouse
gas reduction activities by providing them a letter of recognition (LOR). LOR is issued for
the activities that have already been implemented and achieved GHG reduction, and
the GHG reduction cannot be sold or purchased. The objectives are to honor
the operators, encourage greenhouse gas reduction activities on a small scale, such as
communities, temples, and schools, and encourage support for implementing greenhouse
gas reduction projects. The benefits of LESS implementation include:
• Showing Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility (CSR) through
the implementation of greenhouse gas reduction activities
• Creating opportunities for the communities to receive funding, technology, and
potential development support in conducting greenhouse gas reduction activities
• Contributing to job creation and revenue from activities that reduce greenhouse
gases
• Supporting the development of greenhouse gas reduction technology in
the country
• Restoring and maintaining the ecological balance of natural resources and
the environment
• Raising awareness for organizations, agencies, and communities to contribute to
greenhouse gas reduction and conduct environmentally friendly activities
From 2015-2021, there are 1,041 operators and 7,697 activities with total GHG reduction
of 3,518,444 tCO2eq and total carbon sequestration 186,582,286 tCO2eq.

100

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Figure 3-13: GHG reduction from LESS projects during 2015-2021
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER)
Thailand has established guidelines on the trading and use of carbon credits for
domestic and international purposes. Recognizing global awareness of climate
change and GHG emissions reduction, as well as the guidelines under Article 6 of
the Paris Agreement, Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO) has
developed an internationally equivalent standard of Thailand Voluntary Emission
Reduction Program or T-VER as an alternative for project developers to use and trade
internationally recognized carbon credits. T-VER mechanism promotes and supports
all sectors to voluntarily participate in GHG emission reduction. The T-VER carbon
credits are developed in compliance with the requirements of the GHG reduction
mechanism under Article 6.4 of the Paris Agreement and the international voluntary GHG
reduction mechanism implemented by non-governmental organizations such as the
Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and the Gold Standard (GS). The participants can trade
the emission reduction unit or carbon credit, called “T-VER,” under the voluntary carbon
result in carbon sequestration within Thailand’s jurisdiction. The benefits of T-VER include:
• Carbon Credits can be used for CSR purposes and voluntary carbon offsets for
companies.
• Encouraging the development of GHG emission reduction projects with
co-benefits by means of certifying carbon credits
• Promoting Voluntary Carbon Market in Thailand
• Raising perception /awareness of climate change and encouraging public and
private sector involvement
• Preparing all stakeholders for the future new agreement on Global GHG emission
reduction
From 2014-2021, 257 projects have been registered as T-VER projects with the expected
GHG emissions reduction potential of 9,582,052 tCO2eq per year.

101

 
CHAPTER 3

Figure 3-14: Expected GHG reduction from T-VER projects 2014-2021 (tCO2eq/year)
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

Carbon Offsetting Program and Voluntary Carbon Market
In 2013, Thailand launched the Thailand Carbon Offsetting Program (T-COP). Each
participant (i.e., individuals, organizations, products & services, and events) can voluntarily
offset their GHG emissions in this offsetting carbon program. It provides a platform for
a participant to offset its carbon footprint by contributing money to retire the certified
carbon credits, particularly the domestic carbon credits from (T-VER). This has created
a voluntary carbon market in Thailand with a transaction volume of around 286,000
tCO2eq at the average price of carbon credits around 34 THB/tCO 2eq. Thailand’s
carbon market is a small voluntary market with an average growth rate of 8.5% per annum,
with most carbon credit trading within Thailand in the form of negotiations. (Over-theCounter: OTC) the price of carbon credits is between 15-200 THB/ tCO2eq. From 20132021, overall participants are 112 companies with 690,678 tCO2eq carbon credits, 46
products with 3,471 tCO2eq carbon credits, 107 events with 15,523 tCO2eq carbon
credits, and 1,265 individuals with 5,817 tCO2eq carbon credits.

Figure 3-15: Participants in Thailand Carbon Offsetting Program (T-COP)
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)
102

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
Corporate Carbon Footprint (CCF)
Corporate Carbon Footprint for Organization (Corporate Carbon Footprint: CCF) is
a method for displaying the amount of greenhouse gases emitted from corporate
operations. This will lead to the determination of the management approach. Manage to
effectively reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the factory, industrial and national levels.
Currently, TGO has created a project to promote the organization’s carbon footprint in
the industrial sector and local government. CCF shows the amount of greenhouse gases
emitted by corporate activities such as fuel combustion, electricity consumption, waste
management, and transportation. It can be used to drive the organization’s management
of greenhouse gas emission reduction.

Figure 3-16: Statistic of registered companies for CCF
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

103

 
CHAPTER 3
Carbon Footprint Products (CFP)
TGO initiated the Carbon Footprint of Products promotion project to raise
consumer awareness and disseminate Carbon Footprint (CFP) labeling information from
the production process through the products in the market. The CFP label attached to
the products shows consumers how much greenhouse gases are emitted throughout
the products’ life cycle from acquiring raw materials, production processes, distribution,
use, and waste management after expiration of use, which helps to make consumers’
decisions. The scheme aims to induce manufacturers to adopt mitigation measures and
reduce GHG production with consumers’ purchase power. Furthermore, this CFP can
be used by business partners through their supply chain; the buyers can request CF
information of purchased raw materials from suppliers to quantify their CFP through their
products’ life cycle. Thus, the final manufacturers can disclose their CFP on products to
express their awareness of global warming and climate change.
This effort can also increase the competitiveness of Thai producers in the global market,
where the concern on the importance of global warming and climate change is continually
increasing. TGO, in collaboration with the National Science and Technology Development
Agency (NSTDA), developed requirements and guidelines for quantifying the Carbon
Footprint of Products. The guidelines aim to disseminate a standardized approach to
Thai producers to quantify their CFP. TGO has developed the CFP certification and
registration scheme for Thai producers in accordance with ISO 14067: 2018 Greenhouse
gases – Carbon footprint of products – Requirements and guidelines for quantification
and developed a third-party verification system to increase the credibility and reliability
of the Thai CFP scheme to meet the International Standardization. Producers who intend
to quantify their CFP shall comply with the assigned Product Category Rule (PCR) and
the requirements and guidelines for quantifying the Carbon Footprint of Products.

104

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Figure 3-17: Statistic of registered products for CFP
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

Carbon Footprint Reduction (CFR)
Carbon Footprint Reduction Label (CFR) or Global Warming Reduction Label is a label that
demonstrates a certified Carbon Footprint of Product (CFP) and its emissions reduction
based on the TGO eligible reduction criteria. The CFR evaluation process includes
the quantification and certification of the base year and current year CFP and
the comparison results between the base year and current year certified CFP or against
its product category benchmarking threshold announced by TGO. The product registered
as CFR shall comply with the following requirements: 1) The certified CFP of its current
year compared to the base year certified CFP shall be reduced not less than 2% or
2) The certified CFP of its current year is equal to or less than the product category
benchmarking threshold and not more than its base year certified value. In 2021,
127 products from 28 companies were labeled with an overall emission reduction of
294,055 tCO2.

105

 
CHAPTER 3

Figure 3-18: Statistic of registered companies and products for CFR
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

Low Carbon City
• Municipality and GHG Inventory
The department of local governments and TGO collaborated to encourage local
governments to report greenhouse gas data in local governments and cities to promote
the management of greenhouse gases in local governments to become a carbon
reduction politics and as a database for greenhouse gas reduction activities to become
a carbon reduction city. From 2011-2021, a total of 237 municipalities participated in
the project, and also expanded the city’s carbon footprint in 2014 to guide the reporting
of urban greenhouse gas data as well as for the year 2019, with the cooperation of
94 municipalities, which has been implemented in the city-level greenhouse gas data
reporting guidelines and appropriate greenhouse gas reduction plans in each area.

106

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION

25M

23,000,013

Greenhouse ges emissions (tCO2eq)

21,971,061
20M
scope 1
5M

13,472,055

15,805,945

scope 2
scope 3

10M

5M

5,775,730

6,241,806

3,035,940

3,234,196
3,286,152
0
chon buri

2,604,980

1,642,773

5,760,915

5,347,610

2,790,675
2,612,586

2,424,489

570,718

1,267,533

315,301

817,506

357,654

surin

sukhothai

nakhon pathom

rayong

chachoengsao

province

Figure 3-19: GHG emissions caused by provincial activities in 2021
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

• Achieving Low Carbon Growth in Cities through Sustainable Urban System
Management in Thailand Project (GEF5) (LCC)
TGO and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have joined forces to
develop the project “Achieving Low Carbon Growth in Cities through Sustainable Urban
System Management in Thailand,” with financial support from the World Environment
Fund (Global Environment Fund: GEF) of 3.15 million USD. The project was launched in
2017 and accomplished in July 2021.
The LCC project was designed as a four-year project to promote low-carbon urban
development in mid-sized Thai cities. It pursues the dual aims of greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions reductions, economic benefits, and enhancement of the lives of local
people through an improved urban environment. Emphasis is on the waste management,
transport, and electricity end-use sectors. The project cooperates with the four mid-sized
Thai cities of Nakhon Ratchasima, Chiang Mai, Samui, and Khon Kaen.
LCC targets three outcomes for its partner cities: (1) low carbon planning,
(2) demonstration of low carbon city initiatives, and (3) financing of increased
investment in low carbon city initiatives. For each city, the low carbon planning work
features, development of city carbon footprints, and low carbon development strategies
are to be incorporated into mainstream planning. The demo outcome features a package
of demos for each city. Nakhon Ratchasima and Khon Kaen demos cut across all three
sectors: waste management, end-use energy/ distributed solar PV, and transport, while

107

 
CHAPTER 3
Chiang Mai focuses entirely on transport and Samui on organic waste management.
The financing/ investment outcome was intended to develop financing mechanisms
for low carbon development, but its design also features capacity building and
awareness-raising. Subsequently, TGO has set up a Bureau for Low Carbon Cities and plans
additional city-level outreach, though it aims to address the local level through
cooperation with provinces. TGO also plans to work with the responsible Ministry, MOI,
to develop low-carbon KPIs for the city and provincial staff.
Source: 1) Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO) 2) Terminal Evaluation – Thailand LCC Project,
United Nations Development Programme

Developing Low Carbon and Circular Economy Model for Industry in Eastern
Economic Corridor (EEC) Area
To accelerate economic growth in the next 20 years, the Thai government has set
a strategy to promote investment, trade, production, and services in the Eastern
Economic Corridor (EEC). The EEC was designated as a sandbox (pilot area) for various
economic, social, and environmental development initiatives. In terms of production,
more than 37% of the total factories in Thailand are located in the EEC area. Thus, this
area possesses a high GHG reduction potential and could be developed as a model for
low-carbon industrial cities. In 2018, TGO initiated “Integrating Climate Actions into
the Eastern Economic Corridor: Toward Low Carbon Industry Project.” The objectives
are 1) to develop
a circular economy and low carbon model for the industry in the EEC area (CE-EEC
model), 2) to provide recommendations on circular economy for low carbon industry in
the EEC area, 3) to conduct a survey on low carbon technologies and encourage
industries to self-assess their low carbon industry readiness, and 4) to develop and integrate
the circular economy database into GHG Mitigation Information Platform developed by
TGO.
During 2019-2020, policy recommendations and action plans during 2021-2030 were
developed to promote the low-carbon industry in the EEC area. Sixty factories from 3
provinces in the EEC area participated and implemented GHG management and
emission reduction activities. Among these factories, 44 factories calculated and reported
an organization’s carbon footprint (CFO), 11 factories reported the carbon footprint of
a product (CFP), and 7 factories developed T-VER projects. GHG Mitigation Information
Platform was established to disseminate the project information, knowledge, and
information relevant to GHG emission reduction, such as low-carbon technologies,
number, and name of factories registered to CFO/CFP/T-VER scheme with TGO. In 2021,
6 industries were adopting the CE-EEC Model with the capacity to reduce GHG
emissions equivalent to 1.69 million tCO2 per year. Sets of data on raw materials, product
parts, by-products, and wastes were collected from 88 industries in the EEC areas. From
the data received from 111 industries, in case technologies are advanced, the capacity
to reduce GHG emissions significantly increases to 11,772.42 tCO2. A low carbon
technologies database surveyed 85 factories, and results reveal the low carbon industry
readiness self-assessment from 75 factories.
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)
108

 
THAILAND'S FOURTH NATIONAL COMMUNICATION
Thailand Carbon Neutral Network (TCNN):
Thailand Carbon Neutral Network was established to promote cooperation between
governments in GHG reduction to create sustainable growth in a climate-friendly society
and move toward net-zero GHG emissions aligning with the international community
and the Paris Agreement. The operational objectives include: promote and support
organizations in feasibility studies, readiness potential implementation guidelines and
announcement of carbon neutral targets at the enterprise level; encourage increased GHG
reduction activities; enhance the benefits of sustainable development from greenhouse
gas reduction activities and projects; create a platform for exchanging best practices and
experience in managing and reducing greenhouse gas emissions between organizations
in the network; and promote info sharing/ exchanges between government agencies
and private sector organizations in the network. Network member’s features
are organizations registered in Thailand or established under Thai law and express
a willingness to participate in promoting the pursuit of carbon neutrality, at least one
level of activity, product, or organization.
Source: Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO)

109

 
110
